README.md, before:


## Getting Started

Requires `nodejs` version 18 or higher

1) After cloning, run `npm install` to install dependencies
2) Generate documentation
- For dummy content run `npm run dummy_docs` OR
- For actual content see "Generating versioned documentation" below 
3) Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Generating versioned documentation

Clone documentation repos in parallel folders next to this one

1) clone https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-documentation -> (Should be found in `../oskari-documentation`)
2) clone https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-frontend -> (Should be found in `../oskari-frontend`)
3) clone https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-server -> (Should be found in `../oskari-server`)
4) Run `npm run docs [version] [bln_latest]` where:
- `[version]` is like `2.13.0` (defaults to unreleased)
- `[bln_latest]` is like `true` (defaults to false)

This:
- shovels in everything under `oskari-documentation` to `_content/docs/[version]/`
- copies `ReleaseNotes.md` and `api/CHANGELOG.md` to  `_content/docs/[version]/[ordinal] Changelog/`

## Learn More

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/font-optimization) to automatically optimize and load Inter, a custom Google Font.

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

Commit message:

Add note about .next folder

README.md, after:


## Getting Started

Requires `nodejs` version 18 or higher

1) After cloning, run `npm install` to install dependencies
2) Generate documentation
- For dummy content run `npm run dummy_docs` OR
- For actual content see "Generating versioned documentation" below 
3) Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Generating versioned documentation

Clone documentation repos in parallel folders next to this one

1) clone https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-documentation -> (Should be found in `../oskari-documentation`)
2) clone https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-frontend -> (Should be found in `../oskari-frontend`)
3) clone https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-server -> (Should be found in `../oskari-server`)
4) Run `npm run docs [version] [bln_latest]` where:
- `[version]` is like `2.13.0` (defaults to unreleased)
- `[bln_latest]` is like `true` (defaults to false)

This:
- shovels in everything under `oskari-documentation` to `_content/docs/[version]/`
- copies `ReleaseNotes.md` and `api/CHANGELOG.md` to  `_content/docs/[version]/[ordinal] Changelog/`

## FAQ

Q. Somethings doesn't seem to work properly. What can I do?

A. Try removing the `.next` folder from the repository root that has been generated by the last time the application was built. Run build again and check if it helped (most unusual problems are fixed by this).

## Learn More

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/font-optimization) to automatically optimize and load Inter, a custom Google Font.

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!
