_content/blog/Arctic SDI geoportal.md, before:

---
title: Arctic SDI geoportal
excerpt: The Arctic SDI Geoportal joint effort aims at creating a spatial data infrastructure for the Arctic region. It’s a cooperation network of National mapping agencies in Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, Canada and USA.
date: 2023-12-01 13:00:00 +0200
image: /resources/ArcticSDI.jpg
tags:
  - use case
---

# Arctic SDI geoportal

The Arctic SDI Geoportal joint effort aims at creating a spatial data infrastructure for the Arctic region. It’s a cooperation network of National mapping agencies in Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, Canada and USA.

# How is Oskari used?

It’s goal is to create an easy-to-use single point access for map and other geographic data of the Arctic region from various producers.

The Arctic SDI Geoportal facilitates the discovery, visualization, evaluation, download and integration of geographic data from a variety of sources for the Arctic.

## Who is the map service for?

Anyone interested in the Arctic geographic data

## Find out more!

[https://geoportal.arctic-sdi.org/](https://geoportal.arctic-sdi.org/)

Commit message:

Update Arctic SDI geoportal.md
Updated the contents with old content that had been removed earlier.

_content/blog/Arctic SDI geoportal.md, after:

---
title: Arctic SDI geoportal
excerpt: The Arctic SDI Geoportal joint effort aims at creating a spatial data infrastructure for the Arctic region. It’s a cooperation network of National mapping agencies in Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, Canada and USA.
date: 2023-12-01 13:00:00 +0200
image: /resources/ArcticSDI.jpg
tags:
  - use case
---

# Arctic SDI geoportal

The Arctic SDI Geoportal joint effort aims at creating a spatial data infrastructure for the Arctic region. It’s a cooperation network of National mapping agencies in Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, Canada and USA.

# How is Oskari used?

It’s goal is to create an easy-to-use single point access for map and other geographic data of the Arctic region from various producers.

The Arctic SDI Geoportal facilitates the discovery, visualization, evaluation, download and integration of geographic data from a variety of sources for the Arctic.

One of the most interesting parts of the Arctic SDI Geoportal is its support of six different Arctic projections. The projection support enables users to change projections in the map service on the fly.

Arctic SDI is also a good place to test how temporal data can be viewed with Oskari. Advanced Time Series tool was initially created in the Arctic SDI project. This tool allows you to animate WMS-interfaces with temporal data. If the data allows, you can also scale the animation into smaller periods of time and stop the animation at certain time. Quite handy when visualizing change.

The Arctic SDI Geoportal is operated by National Land Survey of Finland in the Arctic SDI cloud environment hosted by the Norwegian Mapping Authority.

## Who is the map service for?

Anyone interested in the Arctic geographic data

## Find out more!

[https://geoportal.arctic-sdi.org/](https://geoportal.arctic-sdi.org/)
